% Intro
% rftbk
% 2016-03-19

Born in Europe in the mid 90s, growing up with western media, for most
of my life I believed feminism was a done deal.  Women fought the war,
got their rights, and only non-westernized cultures still had issues.
I feel this is more or less the consensus among young people in
western or westernized cultures, perhaps young men in particular.

Thanks to swathes of neoreactionaries in Internet communities I would
frequent (4chan), and later specifically the GamerGate phenomenon, I
came to realize feminism was not necessarily that much of a done deal.
I started to sniff around a bit to learn more.

I came upon Andrea Dworkin's writings at one point.  Formerly I would
believe, as everyone said, that she was a cranky man-hater who even
other feminists hated.  It was reading her writings by myself that
made me radically change my mind.  (Note the usage of the word
"radically" here; it will be relevant soon again.)

Comes out she wasn't a cranky man-hater.  She was, if you ask me, one
of the most important philosophers in human history, and to this day I
can't fully comprehend the fact that she was still alive a mere 15
years ago -- when I was already on this world -- and could have been
alive as I'm writing this if not for her health problems.

I will be writing about radical feminism in this section of my blog.
This type of feminism is radical in the sense that it wants to go to
the roots of the problems women face in society.  It's radical in that
it offers radically different perspectives on society than what we're
used to.  It's a simple mistake to equate radicalism to extremism, or
militant action.

I would strongly encourage everyone to read [radical feminist
classics](http://radfem.org/dworkin) on their own volition to gain
knowledge on the topic.

Fin.
