% Self-declared identity
% rftbk
% 2016-09-13

A common objection I hear upon criticizing someone's claim to be of a
certain sex is that people have the right to define themselves on
their own terms, and to disrespect this is to disrespect the person.

In general, it is of course a good idea to acknowledge people's desire
to be identified a certain way.  A simple example would be, if someone
asks to be referred to as Ricky, but you keep referring to them as
Patrick (on intention), you're being obnoxious at best.  You're being
disrespectful, and possibly even doing it to bully them, or at least
giving them the feeling of being bullied.  Even if their name is
officially Patrick, it makes no difference.

Another example might be choice of words used to refer to a person
with a certain condition.  A person who is overweight may prefer to
identify themselves as "plus sized", or "overweight", instead of the
usually rude-considered "fat".  Or they may find such
polite-considered synonyms to be disrespectful, as they could be said
to carry the implication that the condition is something embarrassing,
and therefore prefer to be boldly called "fat" or even a "fatty".

Similarly with people on the autism spectrum, who may prefer "person
with autism", "autistic person", "aspie", "autist", or any other
variation.  (And if you know a bit about autistic people you may be
aware that this can be *very* important to some of them.)

There is, however, an important difference between such situations,
where a person merely prefers one of many synonymous terms, and
situations in which a person claims to be something which, as far as
the generally accepted definition of the word goes, they factually are
not.  For instance, I'm ethnically half German and half Turkish, and
have citizenship of the corresponding countries.  If I referred to
myself as an Asian, I would either be stating something about myself
that is factually inaccurate, since Turks are generally not understood
as "Asian" (let alone Germans), or I would be implicitly using a
definition of the word "Asian" that is different from what it's
usually assumed to be, such as one including Turkish people.

If I *demanded* people to consider me an Asian at all times, despite
my Turkish/German ethnicity and citizenship being well known, asking
them to treat me the same way they treat other Asians, then I would
not only be personally using an altered definition of the word
"Asian", but demanding others to adopt this new definition into their
vocabulary, replacing the old.

In short, this would not be merely about my self-declared identity
anymore; it would cross over to demanding society to accept an altered
definition of a well-known word, over which I have no de facto
authority, and which is in fact shared by a lot of other people,
i.e. actual Asians.

When a male-born transgender individual demands to be considered a
woman, they are not just using their right to self-declared identity.
They are demanding all of society to accept an altered definition of
the word "woman".

Transgender activists should be open and honest about this.

After it has been made relatively clear what the new definition for
the word "woman" is going to be, a rational discussion could be had on
the merits of accepting or refusing this new definition.  Until then,
"transwomen are women" is only a shoddy mantra.
