% Sexual Orientation
% rftbk
% 2016-05-21

## Three different definitions

Over time I came to realize that people use at least three different
definitions of sexual orientation.  I believe all have their place,
but it's important to note the differences and sometimes disambiguate,
otherwise you can get in a situation where two people really agree
with each other but get in an argument because they use conflicting
definitions without realizing.

### Biological

I'm calling this biological for lack of a better term.  It seems to be
an aspect of a person that is either inborn, or develops very early,
and is involuntary.

Most homosexuals will note, for instance, that as they reached
adolescence they already started to note their homosexuality; that
they simply never found the other sex attractive, and found the same
sex attractive instead.  This is behind the "born this way" narrative,
and it's somewhat supported by science as far as I understand.

Since this is about involuntary attraction, it's noteworthy that it
can be "error prone" so to speak.  The brain probably pays most
attention to secondary sex characteristics to decide whether it finds
a body attractive.  For instance, heterosexual men frequently find
"shemale" pornography arousing, even though they know, consciously,
that what they see is a male person.  The conscious knowledge of the
person's maleness does not erase their inner drive towards finding the
person's secondary sex characteristics attractive (so long as there is
not a strong homophobic reaction masking it), so you end up with a
heterosexual man finding another person they know to be male
attractive regardless, because what they see is nevertheless a
female-seeming body.

(However, it's also important to note that a lot of what seems to be a
natural sexual attraction to "feminine" or "masculine" attributes,
might in fact be learned fetishization, especially in males.  All too
often, men will be aroused by cultural markers of femininity such as
makeup, lingerie, stockings, high heels, and so on.  These have,
obviously, nothing to do with female sex characteristics.)

### Behavioral

This is a definition of sexual orientation that is imposed on a
person, possibly by themselves but often by others, based on their
observed sexual behavior, and the attribution of homosexuality or
heterosexuality to the particular behaviors they exhibit.

For instance, a man might be heterosexual biologically, but
nevertheless have sexual activity with other males who he finds
attractive due to their bodies appearing female-like (natural) or
stereotypically feminine (fetish).  This man might be attributed
bisexuality since factually speaking he has sexual encounters both
with men and women.

A very common misapplication of the idea of behavioral sexual
orientation is men calling other men gay for having had any sexual
contact with another man.  They impose heteronormativity and refuse to
acknowledge bisexuality.  In addition, the man in question might even
be biologically heterosexual.  The phenomenon of viral "trap" images
on the Internet, where an attractive female-looking person is revealed
to be transsexual i.e. male, plays on this phenomenon; the male
audience is intended to feel shock and shame at their attraction for
the person who came out to be male, proving them "gay".

### Intentional

For many if not most people, their sexual orientation is an
intentional part of their personal identity.  They will consciously
limit their sexual behavior so as to conform to a certain behavioral
sexual orientation, possibly even going against their biological
sexual orientation in the process.

The most common occurrence of this is probably in homophobic men, who
work hard never to come in any sort of sexual contact with another
man, lest they become non-heterosexual, or "gay" as they would call it
(actually just behaviorally bisexual).  Even a biologically gay man
might force himself to live heterosexually because of homophobia.

Another variation of this is political lesbians, who as a political
statement refuse sexual contact with men, regardless of what their
biological sexual orientation is.

A person might have *no* intentional sexual orientation, meaning they
don't care about limiting their behavior to anything.  Such a person
might behaviorally end up of any sexual orientation, and might claim a
number of different orientations when asked.  For instance, maybe they
would be bisexual but happened to never encountered a same-sex partner
they found attractive so far, and when asked they just call themselves
heterosexual.  Conversely, maybe they call themselves bisexual because
they can imagine finding someone of the same sex attractive.  Or maybe
they thought more deeply about it and decided to call themselves
pansexual or omnisexual.  (Although those can be intentional sexual
orientations as well.)

## The politics

In light of this taxonomy, I'd like to make a few political points.

While it's interesting scientifically, and perhaps useful for some
other reasons, to acknowledge biological sexual orientation, I believe
it's dangerous to rest one's LGB activism solely on that base.  It's
important for society to understand that people should be free to make
whatever kind of love they want to make regardless of what's
biologically explicable or "natural".  Some recent study even found
that teaching someone the biological base of homosexuality does jack
shit to challenge their bigotry.  So much for that.

Transgender politics are haywire, and the interplay of transgender
issues with sexual orientation is no exception.  While I acknowledge
that biological heterosexuality or homosexuality are not necessarily a
barrier to finding someone of the same sex or opposite sex attractive,
when the person passes well as a member of the sex they imitate, it's
important also to pay respect to political identities of some sexual
orientations.  In particular, I find it ignorant at best, and pretty
vile in some pathological cases, when transgender activists criticize
lesbians for categorically refusing relationships with male-to-female
transsexuals.

That's all for today.

⚢ ⚣ ⚤
