% Of COURSE sex is something "special"
% rftbk
% 2017-07-23

Like, duh...

[Content warning: prostitution, pedophilia, incest, sexual violence]

Saturday was a bad day.  First I found out that @shaun_jen, who I know
from his videos pointing out the stupidity of Anita Sarkeesian
"critics" (good work on that), is in support of your average porn-sick
trans activist Zinnia Jones.  Then I saw @absurdistwords, who I've
been following for a while with the hope of getting more insight into
race issues, state that getting fucked for money isn't much different
from driving a taxi.  I kind of lost it at that point.

Sober again now, I decided I'd write about sex liberal ideology and
how crooked it is.  I touched upon this in my previous piece on
pedophilia, but I think it wasn't very good.  It was in part written
as a hasty and angry response to some trans dogmatist threatening to
"reveal" that I used to be influenced by extreme sex liberal logic
myself, which includes pedophile apologia.  (Something I neither
intend to hide, nor shove into people's faces with demands of
forgiveness.)

So here's a summary of everything wrong with sex liberal ideology.


## "There's nothing special about sex"

The core tenet of the ideology is that sex is like any other arbitrary
activity.  There's nothing "special" about it.  This statement comes
as an opposition to socially conservative morals about sexuality, in
which it's made a taboo subject and "indecent" to talk about and
amoral to exercise frivolously.  Things would be so easy if everything
were black and white and "anti-conservative" automatically meant
progressive and good.  Needless to say, it's never that simple.

Apart from leading to the idiotic statement that "sex work is just
work," there are two very damning implications of this statement.

Firstly, if sex is nothing special, why is it such a pernicious crime
to take sexual advantage of someone while they're drunk?  If sex is
nothing special at all, then being made to have sex while too drunk to
consent should be no biggie.  A bit rude maybe, but not a serious
crime.  In this way, the "sex is nothing special" mentality leads
fairly directly to justification of rape, so long as the rape doesn't
include physical coercion or violence.  Further, it leads to victim
blaming: the woman who feels violated after sobering up is said to
have a "prudish" reaction when she feels violated.  Using her body for
sexual pleasure while she was unconscious, the logic goes under the
"sex is nothing special" mantra, is not much different from using her
kitchen utensils without asking her first.  My general feeling is that
there is indeed an abundance of young men who think exactly like this
when it comes to sex, which is one of the core tenets of rape culture.
They seriously refuse to understand the graveness of non-consensual
sex.  And it's this exact logic that makes many men support the mantra
"sex work is just work."

Secondly, this logic leads pretty soon to pedophile apologia.  Most
people hooked on sex liberal ideology refrain from considering (let
alone expressing) this view because it has been made a massive taboo,
but it *is* a logical conclusion of the ideology, so people will come
back to it again and again.  It was there in earlier days of the sex
liberal movement (see e.g. Alan Ginsberg), and surely it will surface
again if we aren't sufficiently vigilant against it.  Pedophile
apology is a logical conclusion of "sex is nothing special" because if
indeed it's nothing special, why should it not be OK for children to
take part in, so long as they aren't physically coerced or hurt?  In
the ensuing Twitter debate with @absurdistwords and his followers
about "sex work," people have compared sex to cooking, and to reading
books to a child.  (These were in response to me pointing out that sex
is a particularly intimate activity and not a form of labor; the
counter-argument was that it can be either, like cooking for one's
family vs. as work, or reading books to one's own children vs. as part
of work in a Kindergarten.)  If sex can be just work in the same way
that cooking can be work and reading books to a child can be just
work, then the logical conclusion is that sex is comparable in a
general sense to cooking, or reading books to children.  If it's that
trivial of an activity, one is forced to assume it's fine to do it
with children.  One could be cooking for one's child, or one's teenage
child could be cooking for one, so I suppose they could as well be
having sex?  (So long as it's safe sex to prevent inbreeding!)  An
adult could be reading a book to a child, or they could be sexually
touching each other?  All just arbitrary forms of intimacy, after all?

Side-note: philosopher David Benatar made similar points before:
https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/the-superhuman-mind/201302/is-sex-ever-morally-unacceptable

The stock response, I suppose, would be an appeal to the notion that
sex requires informed consent.  But that in itself is an admission
that there's something special about it.  I don't require a child's
informed consent to read a book to the child.  Why does one require
informed consent before initiating sexual contact?  You are forced to
admit that there's a significant difference at this point.  But can
you tell me what it is?  Feminism-influenced sex liberals at least
intuitively know that there's something special about sex, hence the
understanding that non-consensual sex is a special kind of horrible,
and yet all is fine when there's an economically coerced "informed
consent," even at the absence of true willingness?  Aren't we just
fooling ourselves to justify pornography and prostitution?  Shouldn't
it be obvious that people who are deep into selling sex suffer from a
form of desensitization?  If you think sex without a woman's consent
is horrible but sex without her true willingness is fine, you're
simply cutting your feminism at half.  That rape is bad, this rape is
good.  Yes, sex without willingness is rape, "informed consent" be
damned.  Sweatshop workers give their informed consent too, yet I
don't hear any silly mantras like "sweat factories are just
factories!"  We know it's abuse, "informed consent" or not.

Another side-note: enthusiastic willingness is necessary but not
sufficient.  Sex is good when there is BOTH enthusiastic willingness
and informed consent.  Contrary to popular misconception, children are
often groomed into enthusiastic willingness to sexual performances by
abusers.  This doesn't mean they won't feel violated as they grow
older.  The social misunderstanding around this topic causes some
victims of child sexual abuse to feel a doubled shame.  See the book
"The Trauma Myth" by Susan Clancy regarding this topic.


## OK but WHAT makes sex special?

This is where it's getting complicated, and I may not be able to give
a 100% answer.  This is in part because, I think, the "specialty"
applies to a bigger degree to women than men, and I'm not a woman.
I'm very sensitive by nature, but have also been desensitized in some
ways by pornography.  I'm not saying this increased specialty of sex
for women is by nature by the way; i.e. the conservative trope that
women are pure creatures by nature and that sex is carnal by nature
and therefore in contradiction with women's nature.  Rather, I think,
the situation is a result of men's sexual sadism upon women under
patriarchy, the associated inter-generational trauma and fear that's
passed on from women to girls, the sexual shame social conservatives
continue to instill in girls, and the all together resulting climate
in which sex that is "committed" by men "upon" women functions as a
form of dominance display, humiliation, and control.

It is this climate that lead some of the most radical feminists to
conclude, as far as I understand, that true consent and sexual freedom
for women is simply not possible under patriarchy.  That one either
submits through naivete, or becomes politically conscious, and once
one is conscious, one either chooses to submit to a "good enough" man
or decides never to submit.  An authentically free sexuality, under
this view, is made an impossibility for women through a social fabric
that instills a dominance and submission paradigm of sexuality into
the deepest corners of every individual's mind; to convince oneself
that one can be individually free of this is to fool oneself.

Let me note though that while I find this to be a respectable and very
useful position to understand, one need not agree with it in full to
point out the crookedness of sex liberal ideology.  The two views
could be said to be polar opposites, and it's fine to find a point in
between, or attempt to combine the better parts of both.

To expound on the position a bit, common linguistic constructs in the
English language that represent this overall cultural mentality of sex
as a form of dominance and submission would be: the notion that man
fucks woman -- subject verb object (credit: Catharine MacKinnon), or
the notion that someone is "fucked" or "got fucked" when something
particularly bad happened to them.  I remember a past employer of
mine, a young porn-loving man, using the phrase "getting fucked in the
ass" to talk about a bad situation in one of his company-internal
presentations.  Something tells me that, despite his 

Another result (and circularly, a cause) of this situation is that
about 82% of scenes in best-selling pornography contain acts of
physical violence against women, 90% of scenes show women giving oral
sex to men, more scenes show them getting anally penetrated than
showing them receiving oral sex from men, many scenes contain the
horrid "ass to mouth" sequence that is colloquially referred to as
"making her eat shit" and so on.  (credit: Bridges et al., 2010)

This should about sum up the "specialty" of sex under patriarchy.


## Getting back to prostitution


