% Is biological sex a social construct?
% rftbk
% 2017-07-06

I was intending to decrease my amount of writing on trans topics, and
focus more on other issues that feel very important to me, like the
fascism of pornography and prostitution, but the trans movement is
only ever getting more absurd and aggressive, so here we are again.

Besides, when I point out to someone the concretely evidenced massive
rates and sadistic forms of violence in prostitution and pornography,
and they just shrug it off, how the fuck am I supposed to reason with
them?  If they're willfully blind to evidence of real physical
violence against women (and transsexuals, and gay men...)  being
normalized and committed in pornography and prostitution, then I
suppose they need some sort of emotional wake up call, not
intellectual arguments.

Trans issues on the other hand are the epitome of intellectual wank,
which I happen to be exceptionally good at, so here's my take on one
of the most recent madnesses of the ideology: the notion that
"biological sex is a social construct."


## Not a straw man argument

So the claim goes that the idea of "biological sex" and the categories
of "female" and "male" in the biological sense are merely social
constructs, illusions collectively held up in society by politically
charged cultural forces.  Not objective realities that can be observed
independently by any intelligent human being regardless of moral
values or acculturation.

If this sounds too absurd to be an opinion that could credibly be held
by significant public figures and many average individuals in society,
I sympathize, but sadly it's a real thing.

Most obviously, check out Riley J. Dennis, who has a big platform on
YouTube, Twitter, and other social media platforms, and writes for the
anti-feminist wanksite Everyday Feminism.  He was perhaps the main
figure to popularize the notion that "trans women are not biologically
male" on YouTube[^riley_yt] and through Everyday Feminism.[^riley_ef]

A quick Google search reveals that the notion of biological sex as a
social construct in relation to transgender issues was previously
represented in an Autostraddle article in 2014,[^as_2014] by
pornographer Zinnia Jones in 2015,[^zj_2015] and on Sociology In
Focus in 2016.[^sif_2016]

More recently, actress Asia Kate Dillon (most famous for a role in
Orange is the New Black) had a lengthy exchange with Sister Outrider
on Twitter in which she also represented the viewpoint.[^akd_twitter]

Otherwise, many "small" people around social media have seriously
taken up the notion, which you will notice if you spend time talking
to people supporting mainstream trans ideology.  Hell, here in
Germany, a trans-identified male I talked to over a dating app a few
months ago came out to hold the same view.  The crazy is everywhere.

To counter this notion that biological sex is a mere illusion, a
subjective notion rather than an objective reality, let's first of all
remember what an "objective reality" even is...


## Objective reality

An "objective reality" is most easily defined as something which every
physically and mentally healthy person on the planet can independently
verify and agree on, regardless of what culture they were raised in.

Sometimes, cultural or political values cause a person to want to
reject reality and latch on to some illusion that's provably false,
but most cultures and ideologies are constructed in such a way that
they at least take the most obvious objective realities as a basis,
because otherwise the effort of indoctrination is too great and the
belief system cannot sustain itself.

For instance, once we establish the meanings of "two", "four", and the
verb "add", any person of average intellect can verify that if you
have two berries and add another two berries to them, you indeed get
four berries.  This is an objective reality so obvious that no sane
person would try to argue against it.

It doesn't have to be about numbers.  Anyone of average intellect can
independently verify that when you punch a rock very hard, your hand
hurts, but when you punch someone's abdomen, it's not that bad.  We
can agree on using the words "hard" and "soft" to describe such two
types of surface depending on how much they hurt when they collide
with a part of your body, and then agree that it's an objective
reality that a rock is hard and a belly is soft.

Contrast this for instance to belief in a deity.  Societies around the
world have invented a crap ton of supernatural deities, none of whose
existence can be verified on any objective terms, and what deity a
person believes in depends on what they were taught to believe since
childhood.  In this sense, deities are social constructs.  They are
subjective beliefs that are collectively held within a society, but
cannot be objectively verified to be real, so a person who wasn't
taught to believe in a certain deity from childhood is likely to call
bullshit when introduced to that deity as an adult.

Simple enough, right?  But before we can decide whether biological sex
is a social construct, we have to touch upon another concept.


## Categorization

To divide entities into categories is one of the fundamental features
of human intellect, because it's essential to communication and other
survival skills.

Categorization means that, across a set of entities, one takes note of
certain *patterns* or *similarities* that are found to repeat among
certain entities, forming distinct subsets.

For instance, while two apple trees and two wolves represent four
distinct, unconnected piles of atoms in the universe, human intellect
is able to discern that two of those piles of atoms follow a specific
pattern in their shape, color, behavior, etc., and the other two piles
of atoms follow another pattern.

The patterns observed in apple trees would be: they have a brown,
thick, column-shaped body that protrudes from the earth, splitting up
into several branches and sub-branches, which depending on the time of
the year may have green and flat or colorful and round objects coming
out of them, which eventually turn brown and fall off to the ground.
When all these specific attributes are observed in a collection of
entities in the universe, we speak of a *pattern* observed across
entities which makes them *similar* and therefore puts them in the
same category; in this case, the apple tree.

Wolves on the other hand are gray fur-covered creatures walking freely
on four appendages, hunting prey by using an opening at the front of
their body ("front" relative to usual moving direction) that is filled
with white, sharp objects that latch on to the flesh of another
creature when said opening is widened, wrapped around an appendage of
the creature and then swiftly closed again.  They live in packs of
many that help each other hunt, and sometimes they look up to the sky
and make a distinct howling sound.  When all these highly specific
attributes are observed in a number of entities in the universe, we
again speak of an objectively observed *pattern* that indicates a
*similarity* across the entities and thus forms a category.  Here, the
wolf.

Humans couldn't survive in nature if they couldn't tell apart apple
trees from wolves.  One grows edible objects, the other sees you as an
edible object.  That's why we evolved intelligence.


## There are different categories of categories

Getting there now, bear with me.

A categorization can be objectively real, or it can be a social
construct.  This depends on whether the pattern upon which it's based
is an objectively real pattern or only a social construct.

Take note, by the way, that a social construct is not merely based on
lies and illusions.  Usually, it's also made to become as real as
possible through the actions of the people believing in it.  Any
evidence that it is at odds with objective reality is battled and
"corrected" where possible, rather than accepting the natural state of
things.  Society actively attempts to reshape reality/nature to make
things align with the social construct, usually because some political
system relies on people's belief in it.

For instance, historically, many societies believed in two categories
of human: one has a penis and is strong, intelligent, self reliant,
capable, and courageous, the other has a vagina and is weak, silly,
dependent, unskilled, and cowardly.  These are the supposed *patterns*
this categorization is based on.  However, a careful look at all
members of society reveals that these categories are nonsensical,
because there are many people with penises who are weak, silly,
dependent, unskilled, and cowardly, and there are many people with
vaginas who are strong, intelligent, self reliant, capable, and
courageous.  The enumerated characteristics also appear in totally
arbitrary mixes and matches in many if not most people when those
people are left alone to unfold their true personalities, so the
supposed patterns couldn't be farther from the truth.

Because all this would be evident to anyone who takes a good look at
society, people are constantly forced to mold their personalities into
their assigned category.  The categories are made to seem as true as
possible through this pressure to conform, so anyone who wants to
criticize the categorization is left with only few discrepancies to
point at, and at that point the person can easily be silenced, and the
social construct kept intact.

The first aspect of the above mentioned categories that can be
observed in a newborn is whether it has a penis or a vagina.
Therefore, the child is categorized on that basis.  If later the
personality of the child starts to be at odds with the characteristics
of the category, the child is punished until it begins to conform.

So this is it then, right?  Obviously I'm talking about the categories
of male and female, boy and girl, man and woman, and I just proved
them to be a wicked social construct!

Right?

Now hold your fucking horses.

I haven't been talking about biological sex here.  I haven't been
talking about female and male in terms of **biology**.  I've been
talking about the social construct of **gender**, and **sex does not
fucking equal gender**.

Yes, the sciences are always influenced by cultural currents.  They
are never a hundred percent objective.  But they are in a continuous
state of improvement, and since the advent of feminism most a sane
biologist has accepted that the stereotypes traditionally associated
with the sexes are nowhere near as objectively real as the physical
aspects of the sexes that any person on the planet can independently
verify regardless of cultural values or political beliefs.

Female and male, as defined by biology today, are sex categories that
are based on a very clear pair of objectively real patterns that can
be observed across the human species in a way that is absolutely
independent of cultural values and political beliefs.

The key characteristics of biological sex could be listed as follows:

1. Genetic sex (XX, XY)
2. Gonads (ovaries, testes)
3. Hormone levels (high estrogen, high androgen)
4. Internal reproductive anatomy (uterus, prostate)
5. Genitals (vulva, penis)

Now if you medically analyze an arbitrary set of humans, you will
notice the following:

Approximately half of them have: XX chromosomes, ovaries, high
estrogen levels, a uterus, and a vulva.

Approximately the rest have: XY chromosomes, testes, high androgen
levels, a prostate, and a penis.

Now if that is not a pair of *patterns* I don't know what is.

There is a very small number of people who fall out of this
categorization.  The thing with categorizing things in nature is they
are often far from a hundred percent consistent.  There are wolves who
are sick and therefore can't move around, much like an apple tree, but
that doesn't mean we shouldn't try to tell apart a wolf from an apple
tree anymore.  That would have dire consequences.

Sex is a social construct only in a very limited sense of the term,
where the few exceptional people in society who fall out of the
categorization are often considered to be members of one of the two
sexes anyway, either because no detailed medical checkup was made to
detect the intersex condition, or because the existence of intersex
people makes people confused and often uncomfortable for cultural
reasons that again tie in to gender.  Accordingly, the genitals of
intersex people are sometimes operated on to make them conform to the
penis/vagina dichotomy.  But this is a manifestation of the social
construct of gender, not the observation of the objective reality of
sex.  An objective observation of sex will not lead people to force
intersex people into the other categories; it will lead to the
recognition of a very small third category called intersex, which is
already where we are now!


## Is it politically relevant though?

So we can categorize almost all people into two sexes and call them
female and male, but does this have any political use?  Should we
perhaps just drop these terms and redefine the words female/male,
girl/boy, and woman/man for a different categorization, that is not
based on biological sex but "gender identity" or whatever?

Consider that most members of the biological female category are able
to become pregnant, and no members of the male category can.  And that
most members of the male category can impregnate others, and no
members of the female category can.  This is massively politically
relevant, for starters.

Secondly, as you'll notice if you listen to biological women, their
lives often follow certain *patterns* that are rarely if ever observed
in biological men.  Certain patterns of lived experiences that shape
their position in society, such as a socialization into femininity and
servitude leading them to have a depressed pay entitlement and a
weakened sense of personal boundaries.  Ask them for such experiences
with an open heart and be a little critical when a male-born person
immediately jumps in and claims to have it just as bad.  That is a
behavior otherwise seen in MRAs.

And I don't even want to delve too much into FGM, child brides, female
infanticide, widow burning, honor killings, and a range of other
gruesome manifestations of misogyny that target people who are
biologically female, either directly in relation to their sexed
anatomy or because only they are really seen as women by society.

This is not to say that genuine male transsexuals who pass relatively
well never have experiences similar to those of women.  Let's leave
aside entirely subjective "gender identity" feelings and look at some
political realities transsexuals face in society.  It is not entirely
implausible to suggest categories based on such political realities
rather than purely biological ones.  As an example, transsexuals often
face sexual harassment and other boundary violations; experiences they
may claim to have in common with women.  Transsexuals also suffer
greatly under prostitution, a system that otherwise mostly affects
marginalized women.

I elaborated on this in [another blog post](transwomen.html).  There,
I suggested a spectrum from "full female oppression" to "full male
power" based on *political* objective realities rather than only
biological ones.  However, it's nothing comparable to the "gender
spectrum" suggested by trans activists.  For instance, rather than
considering trans-identified males to be just as much women as real
women, this spectrum considers a female-born woman to always be closer
to the woman end of the spectrum than any male-born person.  In other
words, if you want to fall on the "fully woman" end, being
biologically female is a prerequisite.  Correspondingly, some
female-born women may at certain times choose to form female-only
groups, distinct from more inclusive groups that allow some genuine
transsexuals.  This is because, while genuine transsexuals may have
some shared political realities with female-born women, there are also
many issues unique to female-born women, and a political group has
every right to base its politics primarily on those issues, choosing
to exclude male-born people regardless of whether they are considered
"woman" in some way.  Further, to be clear, jackasses like Alex
Drummond or Danielle Muscato who clearly grew up on male privilege and
continue to benefit from it don't even get close to the "woman" half
of the spectrum under this model.

All in all, I continue to be open minded towards a categorization or
spectrum based on political realities rather than purely biological
ones, under which some genuine trans people can be considered members
of the sex they transitioned towards.  Maybe this is what Catharine
MacKinnon meant when she said she sees male transsexuals as women,
regardless of "how they became women."  Her mention of the notion of
"becoming a woman" clearly hints, in my opinion, at a set of lived
experiences a person goes through to become "woman" in a political
sense.  It's not an identity any male person can just claim based on
subjective feelings.

Anyway, I've been digressing.  Biological sex categories comprise an
objective reality, and have important bearings on politics.  So make
of that what you will.


## How did we get here?

If it puzzles you as much as me how we could have ended up in a
political atmosphere in which otherwise science-loving liberals came
to reject some of the most obvious objective realities, I have a
limited explanation:

I believe the ideology of "gender identity" is essentially the
symptoms of a delusional illness being turned into political dogma by
people who suffer from said illness and at the same time hold enough
political power to base a political movement on it.

(I'm not using the word "delusional" derisively here.  I mean it in a
literal sense.  Same with "dogma.")

Watch out for some of the arguments trans activists often put forth:
misgendering is literal violence, invalidating trans identity causes
death, saying male transsexuals are male is transphobic, and so on.
These attitudes, to me, clearly show an inability of an individual to
cope with their own reality.  Being faced with the reality of their
own sex causes them a distress so profound that it fuels suicidality.
On what planet is this normal?  Even marginalized groups who suffer
under constant hate speech don't behave this way, and calling a male
person male sure as hell isn't hate speech.  (Although I'm not denying
the bullying trans people may face from social conservatives who use
intentional misgendering as part of their bullying strategy.)  There
is even some evidence to suggest that genetically and hormonally
normal boys who were born with genital defects can be raised as girls,
with almost 80% of them feeling comfortable with it.[^rftbk_sr] So
even lifelong misgendering has no dire consequences on the majority of
those to whom it happens.

Predominantly straight, white men who have these gender delusions are
in a complicated position with regard to privilege.  Mental illness
that makes life at times unbearable does not necessarily diminish the
privileges a person holds in society.  Historically, when expressions
of gender nonconformity were an ultimate social crime, men with these
feelings presumably lead relatively normal lives with their gender
feelings under strict suppression.  Now, as feminist, LGBT, and sex
liberal movements have collectively loosened the shackles of these
men, they've suddenly become the biggest and loudest activists,
standing on the privileges they've always been holding.  It's another
thing if we're talking about a transsexual who ran away from home as a
teenager and ended up in prostitution, but you cannot tell me that a
straight, white, male college student, or a 30 year-old guy with a
stable job, really belongs to an oppressed and marginalized group
because he feels restricted by masculinity, began indulging in
fantasies of femininity, and developed a delusion in which pointing
out him being male makes him feel awful.  That is a personal plight,
not a political oppression.

So the privileged white man cannot stand the notion that he is a man,
and what does he do?  He begins formulating strange philosophical
ideas to justify his belief that he is literally a woman.  Those who
really transition say they're a woman because they have "female
phenotype" and supposedly "socially function" as women, ignoring all
the profound differences to women they continue to have.  Those who
can't transition or don't pass at all latch on to the next best thing
and say they have "female gender identity" and are therefore "really a
woman inside."  But people continue to point out that even if that
were true, their body is still male.  So what do they do?  They begin
formulating thoughts about how even the notion of a "male body" is
really wrong.  It never ends until each and every notion of them being
"male" in any possible sense of the word is eliminated.  Because that
is their fixation.  They don't care about the well-being of children
and adolescents with gender dysphoria, or else they would admit that a
majority of them desist when treated well.[^cantor_2016] They don't
care about the murder rates of transsexuals of color in prostitution,
otherwise they wouldn't ally themselves with sex liberal men who
support the sex trade.  They don't care about physical safety in
bathrooms, they just want to use the women's room because they're
women, period![^asktg_2016]

All they care about is validation, validation, validation.  It's a
narcissistic and deluded fixation, turned into a political ideology,
sold to liberals who become all empathetic when they hear about
depression, suicidality, bullying, discrimination, and violence faced
by a marginalized class.  Liberals want to be uncompromising in their
empathy, so they refuse to scrutinize the claim that all these issues
are related to validation or invalidation of "gender identity."  Women
who then point out the harm they suffer under this ideology are seen
as bigots not only because of misogyny, but also because they're now
in a position that is superficially similar to that of social
conservatives: a class of people say they suffer from extreme forms of
discrimination and violence under society, and another group of people
oppose them in some way.  This may just be the one biggest instance of
liberal empathy being abused to gain support for a deeply harmful,
regressive social cause.

If you truly want to decrease the amounts of suffering in society,
stop bullying women who oppose men's appropriation of female identity,
and stop with the intellectual wankery on whether men are maybe real
women when they feel so.

Instead, fight against masculine fascism.

It's masculine fascism that leads to massive ostracism of
gender-disobeying youth, causing their depression and suicidality.

It's masculine fascism that conditions men into reacting with physical
violence towards their own intimate partners, be it a woman, a gay
man, or a transsexual.

It's masculine fascism that normalizes men's dehumanization of women,
gay men, and transsexuals in prostitution, often ending in sadistic
forms of murder.

Don't fight science.  Don't fight feminism.  Fight male supremacy.


## Footnotes

[^riley_yt]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eWVRzGMVXbM
[^riley_ef]: http://everydayfeminism.com/2017/02/trans-women-not-biologically-male/
[^as_2014]: https://www.autostraddle.com/its-time-for-people-to-stop-using-the-social-construct-of-biological-sex-to-defend-their-transmisogyny-240284/
[^zj_2015]: https://the-orbit.net/zinniajones/2015/06/stop-calling-trans-women-male-gender-analysis-07/
[^sif_2016]: http://sociologyinfocus.com/2016/08/sex-is-a-social-construction-even-if-the-olympics-pretends-its-not/
[^akd_twitter]: https://twitter.com/AsiaKateDillon/status/881502105453957120
[^cantor_2016]: http://www.sexologytoday.org/2016/01/do-trans-kids-stay-trans-when-they-grow_99.html
[^asktg_2016]: https://www.reddit.com/r/asktransgender/comments/53tqff/documented_cases_of_violence_against_transwomen/
[^rftbk_sr]: https://medium.com/@rftbk/a-simple-science-review-on-gender-identity-4a9fb06a4cc3
