% "Cisgender" normalizes male supremacist attitude
% rftbk
% 2017-04-23

Content warning: trigger warnings.

Trigger warning: questioning of the validity of transgender identity.

First of all, if one defines "transgender" as a manifestation of
gender dysphoria, a psychological disorder that entails severe
discomfort with sexual parts of one's anatomy and a fixation with
being seen as a member of the opposite sex, then my complaint doesn't
apply.  Because in that case, transitioning would simply be seen as a
coping mechanism for people who have said disorder, and "cisgender"
would simply mean "not having that disorder" (or having it but
choosing to cope through different means).

But in contemporary discourse, "transgender" seems to be defined not
in terms of a disorder, but in terms of identification with certain
social categories, which is then thought to reflect a person's inner
nature and true self.

For example: I'm a person whose body is categorized as "male" by the
science of biology, and I feel OK with my body, and don't show a
phobic reaction to being called he, a man, etc.  But if I nevertheless
find myself at odds with being lumped together with other males (many
of whom I find unpleasant and cannot "identify with" at all), then the
logic seems to say that I fall under the transgender umbrella.  I may
call myself agender or nonbinary or such, because I'm not exactly
happy with my social designation as a member of the socially
constructed category of "guys" or "men" or "dudes" or, the most
cringe-worthy, "bros".

And if I felt identification with the social category of the opposite
sex, e.g. if I felt happy from the idea of mingling with the "girls"
or "gals" or "women" then I may even call myself a trans woman, still
without necessarily suffering a debilitating health condition.

A person who is a "cisgender man" then, is a person who is comfortable
with his membership of the category called men, guys, dudes, or bros.
He naturally feels discomfort when faced with the suggestion that he's
instead a women or a girl.  (Misgendering, under this logic, is
equally horrible for all people, not just for people with gender
dysphoria.  Because it's not about your psychological problem being
triggered; it's just a natural reaction of your inner self.)

And if you can't already see the problem with this, please hold on to
your chairs tightly now.

To me, all of that sounds an awful lot like a white person feeling
content with being a member of the socially constructed "white race."
It's one thing to acknowledge that one was born as a member of the
socially constructed "white race" and that this accords one unjust
privileges in society; it's another thing to identify with this "race"
and feel content with it.

I cannot see how male people identifying with the socially constructed
category of men is anything else than having a lack of understanding
that they are living under a male supremacist system that has assigned
them into that category, and has thus accorded them with unjust
privileges.  In the worst case, it may even be tied to a conscious,
intentional support for male supremacy and the devaluing of women.
"Bros before hoes," remember?

In an ideal world, people observe sexual dimorphism and what sex
they're a member of, but don't assign any further values to this, such
as thinking it naturally divides *persons* into two social groups
(rather than just dividing human bodies into two medical categories).

Further, if a man feels horror towards the suggestion that he may be a
woman, is that anything but misogyny?

In line with this, I won't ever call myself "agender" or "nonbinary".
Instead, I acknowledge that I was born into male privilege because of
the shape of my genitals, and merely got the short end of the stick in
some regards relative to other males, because I happen to have a
quirkier and perhaps less masculine personality than the average guy.
This led to my disidentification with "bros", and an easier acceptance
of feminist ideals that criticize the social construction of men and
women, but it doesn't give me a get out of male privilege for free
card.

This feminist consciousness that I try to uphold is one which *every*
man should have, and every man should feel bad if he finds himself
cozying up with his "bros" and seeing women as a natural "other" to
him.

But instead, "cisgender" normalizes that male group identification,
that othering of women, by saying that identification with "man" is
inborn for most males, that is "cis" males.

So I ask you:

How can "transgender" and "cisgender" *not* be defined based on a
psychological disorder, while at the same time *not* normalizing men
identifying with manhood?

If a cis man is a man identifying as a man, shouldn't all men begin to
identify as agender or nonbinary or bigender or genderfluid, seeing
cis men as politically ignorant or backwards?  Should we all begin to
identify as trans?

Or should we spare the word "transgender" for people who experience a
health condition with regard to their relationship to their body and a
phobic reaction (not a political critique, but a phobic reaction)
towards biology-based sex categorization, and undertake medical
procedures as a coping mechanism?


