How sex is determined, roughly, with some mention of {{ intersex
conditions }} in between:

The Y chromosome contains a part called SRY, which triggers the
development of testes in the fetus. It doesn't matter what exact
chromosome layout you have (XX, XY, XXY, XYY, XXYY, etc.); the
important thing is whether you have at least one Y chromosome or don't
have any.

{{ XX male syndrome: an X chromosome erroneously contains the SRY gene
and triggers male development. The fetus develops into a relatively
normal male, though sterile, despite the person only having X
chromosomes. }}

{{ Some other genetic defects (like Klinefelter): the person has an
unconventional chromosome set, other than the typical XX or XY. This
leads to some minor strangeness in sexual appearance, and is therefore
often considered to be under the intersex umbrella, even though it's
relatively unambiguous what sex the person belongs to, in line with
whether they have a Y chromosome or don't. }}

The testes of the fetus produce androgens like testosterone, which
trigger the development of the rest of sexual anatomy and physiology
of the male, such as an enlargened prostate, the testicles, penis,
etc.

{{ Androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS): the cells of the body do not
respond to androgens. The body converts the androgens into estrogens,
and instead develops female. Depending on the severity of the androgen
insensitivity (the most severe called Complete AIS i.e. CAIS), an
externally female child is born, with a vulva and vagina, however
internally the child lacks the ovaries and uterus, and instead has
undescended testes in its belly. (These are sometimes surgically
removed to prevent them from growing into tumors.) }}

If all went fine, you now have a child that has either XX chromosomes
and a female body, or XY chromosomes and a male body. When the child
reaches puberty, another surge of hormones lead to the second major
sexual development phase.

{{ Penile ablation: the child is for some reason born missing a proper
penis, even though all else went fine. Sometimes the child is raised
as female due to this, which is then considered to be a condition
under the intersex umbrella, even though the child's sex is originally
quite unambiguously male, although sometimes genital surgery and
hormone therapy are applied to feminize the child's anatomy. }}


Lastly, gender dysphoria: there is no really good scientific evidence
to suggest that this is an intersex condition. Patterns in neurology
observed among trans people are sometimes simply explained by
homosexuality and disappear when this factor is controlled
against. Otherwise, said neurological patterns possibly correlate with
a stereotypically feminine personality in boys / stereotypically
masculine personality in girls, and as such leads to socially induced
distress over one's sex. Claims that MtF transsexuals are "really
women inside" and FtM transsexuals are "really men inside" have no
solid basis in science.
