% “Gender Identity” and Internalized Sexism
% rftbk
% 2016-11-16

*If it looks like a duck, swims like a duck, and quacks like a duck…*

> My feelings have nothing to do with sexism and politics, as far as I
> know.  — A transgender person.

People who identify as transgender, non-binary etc. (not to be
conflated with those who are transsexual as a matter of fact) claim to
have some deep understanding of their own psychology (or even
neurology) such that they are able to claim: their feelings about
themselves prove the existence of a concrete and natural taxonomy of
people, analogous to the taxonomy of sex. In particular, they call
this “gender identity”, and actually want to replace the taxonomy of
sex with it, but let’s ignore that for now to narrow the topic. They
claim that this has nothing to do with sexism; that it’s natural.

My question would be, why should we trust their judgment? I don’t mean
this in a hateful, dismissive way. There are so many good, scientific
and political (feminist, not conservative) reasons to question their
claim, that it’s quite puzzling why any challenging of their
self-declared knowledge of this hypothetical “gender identity” should
be seen as narrow-mindedness, bigotry, intolerance, or hatred.

As evidenced again and again, transgender identification is often
explained in terms of a desire to adopt superficial stereotypes
ascribed to the sex with which the person identifies. This strongly
hints towards the phenomenon being related to internalized,
subconscious sex stereotyping.

When challenged about this, transgender people tend to claim, in my
experience, that their feelings go deeper than attachment to
stereotypes, but nobody seems ever able to explain how exactly. I
talked to several transwomen about this on the Internet, and it’s more
or less a different story every time. The closest I got[1] was someone
stating that infants are able to tell apart female and male faces, and
may be born with a sense of which group they belong to. While I still
don’t think it would justify redefining “female” and “male”, I’d love
to see a scientific evaluation of that hypothesis.

All in all, I have a suspicion that feelings of a
deeper-than-stereotypes gender identity stems, for many, from
identification with a complete, conceptual “female gender” or “male
gender” that is felt as being a separate entity from, despite still to
a large degree consisting of, sex stereotypes. We say “the whole is
more than the sum of the parts.” The “whole” includes the connections
and interactions between the parts. It includes the abstract
conception of the whole that makes sense to the mind as one unit,
independent of the parts. Applying this idea to sex stereotypes, the
“whole” would be the complete package of a conceptual “female gender”
or “male gender” which is made up from a large collection of sex
stereotypes, plus basic biological sex characteristics. That is our
collective understanding of “woman” and “man”: mythical figures
embodying both the biological characteristics, and the cultural
stereotypes associated with, the sexes. So the feeling of gender
identity would be nothing more than the identification with one of
these mythical gender entities. In the case of non-binary identifying
people, it would presumably be identification with some individually
held third/non-binary “gender” that’s essentially an amalgamate of
different stereotypes and biological characteristics.

So far, all can be explained in terms of subconsciously held sex
stereotypes. In particular, the above analysis would explain the
connection between claims of inner gender identity, and attachment to
superficial stereotypes. It’s unclear why such a feminism-based
analysis should be dropped simply because it goes against the beliefs
of the people in question. We don’t unquestioningly validate the
personal beliefs of masculine men when they say it simply feels right
for them to be aggressive and dominant; that it feels like it’s in
their essence as “man”. We understand that it’s psychological
conditioning beginning in boyhood. Likewise for women who strongly
hold on to “womanly” values and feel that is natural for them. Why
make an exception for people making these claims of “gender identity”,
when they sound so similar to women and men believing in sexism?


## Sex Dysphoria

Moving on to sex dysphoria, which may be interpreted as proof of
gender identity. Firstly, consensus in the transgender community seems
to be that sex dysphoria is not a requirement to the claim of gender
identity. There are enough people in the trans community, mostly males
from what I can tell, whose claim to gender identity begins and ends
with “inner feelings” and an attachment to stereotypes and cultural
norms of the mannerisms and clothing of women. Secondly, I’d like to
say I’m still open to the theory of a sex dysphoria based on
neurology; it’s just that I’m not aware of concrete evidence of it so
far. (And either way it wouldn’t justify calling males with sex
dysphoria female.)

Having said that, dysphoria in female people can be explained fairly
well through objectification. It seems to begin ever earlier nowadays
that children are exposed to sexual objectification of female anatomy,
and similar to anorexia this may explain the development of a deep
repulsion towards parts of one’s own anatomy in female people. Not
much more to say on that, although I can strongly recommend
Glosswitch’s article[2] on the topic.

In males, dysphoria may be explained in a few ways. Firstly, the
objectification of female anatomy, as it’s generally tied with sexual
excitement for males, may lead to a desire to possess those body
parts. This would likely arise during puberty. Another explanation
would be the realization that the “female gender” with which one
identifies (as a result of subconsciously held sex stereotypes) lacks
the genitals the male has, and has a different set instead. This may
arise earlier than puberty. While writing this I realize that I
haven’t been exposed to many narratives of sex dysphoria specifically,
as the focus seems to go almost always to the superficial,
stereotype-related aspects of gender dysphoria instead, as far as
transgender narratives in news and social media go. It would be very
interesting to know what portion of transgender identifying
individuals experience(d) sex dysphoria, at what age it began, and
what the relevant body parts are. A cogent analysis of possible
relations to sexism vs. neurology could then be made.


## But it’s proven!

Lastly, there are claims that there’s strong proof for a neurological
basis of gender identity. This claim has been repeated enough times
for a large part of the trans community to start believing in it and
use it as a central argument. In truth, the situation is much more
complicated. Neurological similarities among transwomen and among
transmen are found occasionally. Sometimes their brain is found to be
somewhat similar to that of the sex they wish to be, but only
halfway. Sometimes the findings come out to be related to sexual
orientation and not “gender identity” because the study didn’t control
for that confounding factor. Sample sizes are always relatively
limited. The unknowns of neurology (such as the extent of
neuroplasticity with regard to gendered life) make clear-cut
interpretations difficult. The TranScience Project offers a fairly
accessible summary of the state of research on the topic,[3] admitting
that no conclusions can be drawn; the page doesn’t even use the term
“gender identity” at any point.

In conclusion, I honestly don’t see why anybody should be forced to
believe in the hypothesis of clear-cut gender identity. Why we should
be forced to believe the claim that there is some essential spiritual,
psychological, or neurological bond between all women and transwomen,
and all men and transmen. Like many women, I refuse to believe in such
an unproven hypothesis based mostly on subjective notions and
feelings, especially given that it could be seen as a form of
neurosexism. I can see that everything trans* and non-binary
identifying people feel is possible to explain in terms of (radical)
feminist analysis, and will stick to that until I have a good reason
to change my mind. One must remember that sex stereotypes aren’t
something one can stop believing in through sheer force of will, such
that any remaining “identification” with femininity or masculinity
could then be claimed to be natural; we’re born into a sex
stereotyping society, we grow up in a sex stereotyping society, and we
breathe sex stereotypes in and out every waking day. We should pay
more attention to their possible effects on us.


## References

[1] https://www.reddit.com/r/asktransgender/comments/53shup/why_do_or_did_you_want_to_transition/d7vucvr/

[2] http://www.newstatesman.com/politics/feminism/2016/08/anorexia-breast-binding-and-legitimisation-body-hatred

[3] http://transcience-project.org/brain_sex.html
