% Pedophilia
% rftbk
% 2017-02-24

*I didn't ever intend this blog to be purely about transgender issues
(although I've come to see it as a serious emerging crisis by now),
and wanted to write more about pornography and other problems in "sex
liberal" ideology.  Finally, here's a first entry on that front.*

A lot of men, and many women too, react with shock when you say that
rape is an endemic problem, that we live in a rape culture.  This
stems from their fantasy of rape as: you're strolling through the park
at night, and suddenly a dark figure jumps out from behind the bushes,
pulls you in, and holds a knife to your throat or a gun at your head
and brutally sexually assaults you.

It's not that this never happens, but it's indeed a rare occurrence.
Rape, however, is any sex that one was made to have which one did not
actually want to.  Explicit force is only one of many ways through
which that can happen.  More common instances, I'm being told, are
date rape and acquaintance rape, which can happen through pressure or
in relation to use of alcohol (often called "seduction" if that is the
case), rape by a stranger while one is heavily drunk, rape through
abuse of authority, and so on.  There is even a good reason some
feminists have went as far as saying that "consent" is entirely
meaningless in the context of a society that defines all parameters of
sexuality on the basis of men's desires in the first place: a woman
who perfectly "consents" to having sex with her partner may be doing
so purely because she's been deeply conditioned to believe that once
she's in a relationship with someone, he has a right to sex with her.

(Such instances of rape that aren't based on direct physical coercion
may be called "non-forcible rape".  I'm noting this because I'll use
the term later.)

This analysis is what makes feminists conclude that the promiscuous
sex culture in which many people live is not as rosy colored as sex
liberals seem to believe.  Instead, we live under a rape culture, and
sexual interchanges can and often should be scrutinized under a
political perspective.  Rape is, it comes out, an endemic problem;
people just often don't see it when it happens.

You can carry this analysis over to pedophilia.  Society has a certain
fantasy of pedophilia that includes a monstrous, inhuman creature
acting out brutal sexual sadism on a small child.  (The movie *Gone
Baby Gone* comes to my mind every time I think of this problem.)  And
again, it's not that this doesn't happen at all -- it does, that's how
far sunk some members of society are -- but it seems to be very rare
relative to all child sexual abuse (CSA).

Cognitive psychologist Susan Clancy's work with CSA victims has had
her reach the conclusion that up to a whopping 95% of victims did not
even resist when the perpetrator took up sexual contact with them.[1]
I don't know what amount of them simply froze in shock, but for a
substantial portion, the explanation appears to be that, in their
childish naivete, they simply didn't have a negative conceptualization
of the situation, were at worst "confused" by the actions of the
adult, and so did not suffer any *immediate* trauma.  As long as no
physical violence is involved, and thus the child suffers no physical
pain, this is not implausible.  The topic is explained in-depth in
Clancy's correspondingly named book *The Trauma Myth*.  (Which I still
haven't read by the way.  Only the summary.)  Based on her findings,
she criticizes the phenomenon that people actually *expect* victims of
CSA to be deeply traumatized.  For some of them, that actually ends up
being one of the reasons they eventually *do* get traumatized.

A common misconception arising from the title -- over which she later
expressed regret -- however, is that no trauma is involved at all in
the aftermath.  There is, it just develops over time, as the victim
gains the cognitive abilities and social knowledge required to fully
interpret what actually happened back then.

An older study by psychologist trio Bruce Rind, Philip Tromovitch, and
Robert Bauserman, a highly controversial peer-reviewed meta-analysis
published in 1998, also concluded that CSA did not *necessarily* cause
intense or pervasive harm to the victim.  It's understandable that
many people respond with shock and anger to such a result, as it
sounds like "pedophilia is sometimes OK" at face value, but the
correct way to interpret this, as I see it, is that every victim
processes what was done to them in their own way, depending on their
personality, the precise nature of what happened, and so on.  It's not
unthinkable that in some portion of cases, the victim may not suffer
*intense and pervasive* harm to their psychology, and get over the
experience just fine, despite the eventual understanding that it was a
form of abuse.

Incidentally, I've been told similar things about rape victims.  The
social expectation of them to react with some deep disturbance and
irreversible trauma to what happened only serves to cause them more
pain in social situations, and possibly even makes them appear to lie
when they speak up about their rape in the first place.

Just as people's misconception of rape as something inherently
physically violent leads them to disbelieve rape victims and defend
perpetrators who "would never do something like that," there is good
reason to believe that the same happens with victims and perpetrators
of child sexual abuse.  We need to understand that a lot of children
give (basic) "consent" to their abuse, and that it's a lot more
wide-spread than one might desire to believe.


## Defense of CSA is the logical conclusion of sex liberalism

At this point I want to provide a joint criticism of the core of sex
liberal ideology as well as a certain strand of CSA apology that
occasionally arises from it, especially in pedophile circles.

(Side-note: just as pedophiles aren't [literally] beast-like inhuman
creatures, their communities likewise don't exactly look like a
population of Orcs straight out of The Lord of the Rings.  Rather,
some of their members tend to be surprisingly intelligent people, some
of whom in turn justify their pedophilic intentions [to themselves]
through elaborate logical reasoning.)

David Benatar, professor of philosophy, once wrote a paper about the
fact that, "the view of sexual ethics that underlies an acceptance of
promiscuity is inconsistent with regarding (1) rape as worse than
other forms of coercion or assault, or (2) (many) sex acts with
willing children as wrong at all.  And the view of sexual ethics that
would *fully* explain the wrong of rape and pedophilia would also rule
out promiscuity."[3]

(Yes, I also have an issue with his wording, in particular his use of
the word "willing" with regard to victims of CSA, but bear with me.)

He goes on to clarify that his intention is neither to defend
non-forcible rape and pedophilia, nor to make a case against
promiscuity.  One may defend the sex liberal perspective and therefore
accept non-forcible rape and CSA, or one may give up sex liberalism
and accept that sex is not "just a fun activity like any other" (as
sex liberals would put it).  All he points out, as a philosopher, is
that it's one or the other; the two philosophies are in an inherent
logical contradiction with each other.

What side pedophile-apologists take is obvious.  They say sex is "just
a fun activity," point out that children don't have an inherent "get
traumatized" switch that's turned on when an adult makes non-forcible
contact to parts of their bodies the adult deems sexual, point at the
results of the Rind et al. study, and even point at Susan Clancy's
results to "prove" themselves right, and conclude that, so long as
it's not physically forced, "adult-child sexual contact" is just fine
and dandy.

They are wrong, but only because sex liberal ideology is rotten to the
core.  Not because their logic is wrong.

For most sex liberals, the extreme taboo we have on pedophilia serves
as a sort of road block on their logic, preventing them (thankfully)
from taking their own ideology to its natural logical conclusion of
defending pedophilia.  These people just lift the roadblock.

(If I may digress a bit: I think the sex liberal movement actually
depended on this roadblock being placed there, as otherwise the
rottenness of their ideology would be easier to reveal.  Note how
pedophiles were originally a part of the sex liberal movement, only to
be cast out at some point as they were *too* controversial.  They did
keep all the other rot though.)

In any case, sex has never been in recorded history, still is not, and
won't in the foreseeable future become "just a fun activity like any
other".

First of all, sexuality is all too often burdened by a predatory,
pushy, pressuring, entitled, arrogant mindset men get into as soon as
their boners are concerned.  I'm pretty sure that a large part of CSA
victims eventually understand that even if there was no physical
violence, there was the mindset of an entitled prick lacking any self
control and self awareness present in the room.  That alone is enough
to turn the memory into something significantly unpleasant to say the
least.  Likewise, many adult women who men may deem "prudish" or
"uptight" are more likely to be just reacting with a healthy internal
"fuck you" to all the men who are already half-fucking them with their
eyes as soon as they enter a room.

Secondly, there's the whole "stigma" aspect of it.  Sex liberals half
understand this one at least.  They just don't understand that the
stigma stems from a sexual behavior which liberal men possess just as
much as conservative men, and that said stigma is natural and won't go
away so long as *men* don't change their sexual attitudes.  You can't
just force the stigma out of someone's head when there's a very good
reason it landed there in the first place.

What we call "stigma" surrounding sexuality, by the way, is actually
two things if you ask me: men's readiness to perceive a person as
having been defeated and degraded when the person receives
penetration, and the corresponding defensive fear women feel because
they are the typical target of penetration.  Of course, women often
also adopt the mentality of seeing the penetrated as degraded, and men
often also experience the fear of penetration.  Just have one man
suggest to another (no matter if an average conservative or average
sex liberal) to penetrate him anally, and observe the shock in his
face.  Only few men are able to lose their "prudishness" over getting
penetrated, after they learn that with enough lubricant and relaxation
it can be rather physically pleasurable, but even then they generally
keep it secret because guess what, they know that other men would
ridicule them, seeing them as degraded.  Or more likely, they just
keep their prudishness, despite knowing that receiving penetration may
actually be pleasurable due to a fact of male anatomy.

Once you understand all these sexual dynamics, which are really common
sense once you get rid of your religious conviction of sex liberalism,
defending pedophilia doesn't work anymore either.  It becomes part of
the larger phenomenon of male violence that we can observe even in the
most modern nations of the world.  Child or adult, a sex act that an
adult imposes on one (regardless of whether direct coercion is or
isn't involved) is always to be held under scrutiny.  And if a person
is below the age of consent, with a certain age difference from the
perpetrator, that's a good cut-off point for saying "no, that's just
not acceptable at all, ever."


### Bonus part: Sex liberals are rotten, and so are trans activists

This last part is a bit of a "fun fact" (depending on your
understanding of "fun" I suppose).  The reason I was motivated to
write this article is as follows...

Earlier today I received an e-mail, by "someone whose partner is
non-cis and someone who doesn't align with the heteronormative binary
divide".  He means the biological fact of sexual dimorphism in the
mammal species homo sapiens, which I'm pretty sure he does align with
as I doubt that he's intersex.

In connection with his support for transgender ideology, he seemed to
threaten me with "revealing" that I wrote things in the past that
could be interpreted as pedophile apology.

In fact, I've written much worse things in the (further) past than
what he seems to have discovered.  (He referred to a web forum I was
active in just months ago.)  And I've never even tried to make a
secret of this.  If memory serves right, I've mentioned at least twice
on Twitter that in connection to having been convinced by sex liberal
ideology for most of my earlier life, I went as far as agreeing with
pedophile apologists.  Their logic above that I criticize is *exactly*
the logic I used to follow, as I was (partly still am, to be honest)
an extreme nerd who's prone to being blissfully unaware of how social
reality looks out there in the material world where people actually
interact with each other, face to face.

I want to point out though how rotten of a logic this person is
following.  Depending on how exactly one thinks current or past
pedophile apologists should be handled, one may believe it to be a
morally good thing to out them, and so do it, or one may believe it
not to be morally good, and therefore not do it.  If one is really
polite, one may talk with the person first and decide on the basis of
their response whether to antagonize them or not.  What this person
does, instead, is not give a fuck about the morals of the topic at
hand, and instead try to use it as a weapon to further their own,
entirely unrelated ideology.  They evidently don't give a single fuck
about the morals of whether a past pedophile apologist should or
shouldn't be outed, and just want to use the possibility as a weapon
to prevent them from speaking out against transgender ideology.  How
fucked up is that?

Anyway, as someone who takes relative pride in being an open book
(with key exceptions, mind you), and therefore takes major offense at
threats of blackmailing, this is my "screw you" response to this
person.  I hope they'll rage with the fury of a thousand suns as they
read it.  (Though I wish them no real harm, honestly.)


## References

[1] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Susan_Clancy

[2] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rind_et_al._controversy

[3] https://www.jstor.org/stable/40441324
