% Are transwomen really women though?
% rftbk
% 2016-09-30

So there's this widely accepted notion in mainstream leftist politics
that transwomen are women, period, and implying or explying that you
disagree means you're anti-trans.

For instance as soon as the other side in a discussion realizes that
you question the notion, they consider you in the enemy camp and
change their style of debate accordingly, if not simply end the debate
because they aren't interested in debating an anti-trans bigot.

Furthermore, "transwomen are women" is often the starting point of
many further logical evaluations.  Since transwomen are women, if you
say that women and transwomen should have different political
movements, safe spaces, etc., you are being "divisive".  If you wrong
a transwoman, it can be perceived as misogyny; transmisogyny to be
precise, but certainly a form of misogyny.  And the all famous: since
trans women are women, centering female biology in feminist discourse
means you're being exclusive of a whole class of women!  You wouldn't
ever categorically exclude black women from feminism now, would you?
So how could you ever justify excluding transwomen?

Given all this, it might be a good idea to have an *honest* evaluation
of the idea that transwomen are women.  I'll try to do so with what
I've learned from women, in particular radical feminists.

In my [previous post](self-identification.html) about self-declared
identity, I've concluded that the notion that transwomen are women
comes down to (re)defining the word "woman" in such a way that it
would include that set of people, transwomen, that it otherwise
excludes.  How do people in the mainstream who say "transwomen are
women" define the word "woman"?  I honestly don't know.  Sometimes it
really seems they define girls and women through conservative
stereotypes, but I won't go there; I'll instead put forth some
definitions of the word that I would say are progressive definitions.


## Adult female human

*Note: see [here](http://www.feministwiki.com/index.php/Sex) for a
summary of how sex, i.e. whether you're female or male, is defined in
terms of biology.*

This is literally the dictionary definition of the word.  As of this
writing, it's the nr.1 entry on at least: Wiktionary, Cambridge
Dictionary, and Merriam-Webster.  (Oxford wants a subscription to look
at their dictionary.  What the heck, Oxford?)  Wikipedia agrees as
well: "female human ... usually reserved for an adult."

At first thought it's not clear why it would be considered
particularly progressive.  The progressiveness is in that the
definition attaches absolutely no strings to the word.  To make this
clear, I like to write "adult female person, no strings attached."
You can be whoever you want --wear whatever you want, talk and behave
however you want, work whatever job you want, and have whatever
hobbies you want-- and if you're an adult female human being, you're a
woman, unquestionably, no further questioning needed.

This has the benefit of making it clear that any stereotypes ascribed
to women are just that: stereotypes.  It's not necessary to conform to
a stereotype to be a legitimate woman.  The only thing needed is that
you have a female body, and you're a woman; or a girl, depending on
your age.  (Some destructuring of patriarchal beauty norms might also
be useful here, but let's not drift off the topic.)

It's also a very simple definition, which even a young child can
understand, so that's pretty useful.

The simplicity is also the only shortcoming: in the case of some
intersex people who may not simply be considered "female" in terms of
biology, but were still born visibly female (or considered female at
the discretion of doctors/parents), one may end up telling someone who
has been a girl and later a woman their whole life that they have
never really been a girl and aren't a woman, which could be quite
irritating to the person.  This could be resolved in two ways: first,
by making it clear to the person that when one says they aren't
*really* a woman, one only means that in the sense of the literal
definition of the word, and not as an insult; or second, by using the
next definition...


## Person considered female since after birth

In a [past writing](intersex.html) I reasoned that there's two types
of people for whom the notion "assigned female at birth" (as opposed
to "correctly observed to be female") makes sense: intersex people who
were born looking unambiguously like one sex, and intersex people who
had ambiguous genitals and were arbitrarily assigned one sex by the
doctors/parents.

In both cases, the person is then considered a girl, receiving the
corresponding upbringing and treatment, and later becomes a woman,
again receiving the corresponding treatment.  Likely, it's the way the
person comes to conceptualize themselves as well.  The only notable
difference that may be socially relevant between such a person and a
simply female person is that the intersex woman is perhaps infertile.
Therefore there's little reason not to just consider her a woman.

As far as I understand, this definition also comes close to
acknowledging the construction of "women" as an arguably arbitrary
social class under patriarchy.  "One is not born, but becomes a woman"
by being *considered* female, and groomed into an according set of
social roles.  More on this in the next definition...


## Member of oppressed class under patriarchy

Here it gets a lot more complicated.

There seems to be a viewpoint, if I understand it correctly, that
"woman" is entirely constructed under patriarchy to oppress the people
dumped into that category; that without patriarchal oppression, the
category wouldn't exist at all; that the category only exists because
of the oppression.

This opens up the window to include some people who weren't born
female or assigned female after birth into the category of "women"
because they are, the reasoning goes, oppressed in the same way /
under the same system.

As far as I understand, this is for instance the way in which
Catharine MacKinnon considers transwomen to be women.  I suspect this
may be related to her work around prostitution, since that is one
system in which transwomen suffer more or less the same way women do
as far as I know, but I don't want to make unfounded assumptions about
her views either, so let me know if you know more than me.

I would question though whether transwomen really suffer a fate
comparable to that of women, overall.  I would view this in two
categories: passing transwomen and non-passing transwomen.  After all,
this is about patriarchal oppression, so it's quite relevant whether
society perceives someone as female or not.

I can't know the details of the treatment transwomen who don't pass
receive, since I haven't been one and haven't been personally very
close to many in my life so far, but simple reasoning would have it
that they're treated more or less the way any man performing
femininity would be treated.  Non-passing means they're visibly male,
yet they act in ways reserved for "women," so they're punished for
refusing to obey their assigned role in society, and ridiculed
because, the misogynist mindset goes: if there's anything more silly
than a woman with her femininity, it's a *man* being feminine.  So
while the treatment/violence the person receives may be ostensibly
similar to that of a woman, the reasons are very different.

Note that what we're talking about here is how society treats one.
After all, this is about oppression.  If being (correctly) read as
anatomically male triggers a traumatic response in someone, that's a
matter of personal psychiatry, not systemic oppression.

(Digression: one could further dig into distinctions between
*oppression* and *discrimination* here, but I won't even go that far.
You're welcome to look into that distinction though; you might
conclude that it makes quite a bit of sense to say that while women
are being systemically *oppressed* and *exploited*, transwomen are
only being systemically *discriminated* against, which is also an
important issue but certainly a different matter.)

Passing transwomen, obviously, receive the same treatment as women in
daily life.  This means that they experience the day to day reality of
being a woman in a misogynist society.  Even that, however, is far
from being equivalent to the reality of a female-born (or "considered
female since after birth") person.

Perhaps most relevant to the image and Internet based porn culture
that we're newly inhabiting: all girls growing up in this society have
to come to terms with the fact that their bodies are viewed as objects
of sexual pleasure by virtually all men around them, and even a
substantial number of women who have been conditioned to think in
terms of patriarchal ideals.  Pornified images of the female body,
especially youthful female bodies, are omnipresent in mass media.

Coincidentally, let me quote MacKinnon on this: "All women live in
sexual objectification the way fish live in water."

I think it would be disingenious to suggest that all this has the same
effect on a person who was born female and had to go through female
puberty within our porn culture, and a person who grew up male and
decided to transition at the age of, say, 20.  Ironically,
pornographic fetishization of female anatomy seems to play a role in
some people's desire to transition, though I'm not supposed to bring
this up.

There are many more ways in which the reality of a female-born person
differs significantly from that of a transwoman.  Upbringing as a girl
is not limited to objectification.  It also includes the teaching that
one is inferior to boys; even the careful grooming into femininity to
make sure that this premise becomes as true as possible.  It includes
being taught to get used to the harassment of boys, because boys will
be boys.  It includes being taught that one will be a mother one day,
not a scientist, engineer, philosopher, or politician.  For the *vast*
majority of "considered female since after birth" individuals, namely
those who *are* female and don't have a disorder of sexual
development, their female reality includes the pain and humiliation of
menstruation starting from puberty.  It includes pregnancy scare.  It
includes lack of access to abortion, and often even contraception.

One could expand on this, but the summary is that women and transwomen
have significantly different realities of oppression under patriarchy.
Transwomen will often bring up issues such as "their identity being
denied" as a tenet of their oppression.  They will claim that "cis"
people oppress trans people, explicitly including the claim that "cis"
women oppress transwomen.  They will call this "transmisogyny,"
painting it as a type of misogyny, when it's entirely unclear what
this is supposed to have with the oppression of women, i.e. female
persons.

At best, I can imagine one could define a sort of spectrum from "full
female oppression" to "full male power" where a person can fall in
between depending on which tenets of female oppression they do and
don't experience.  (So female-born fertile women would be the most
oppressed, followed by e.g. infertile women, then passing transwomen,
and so on.)  One would then expect that those who fall on the female
end of the spectrum are those feminism focuses on the most, and
gradually less so as you move towards the middle.  But nope, since
*transwomen are women, period*, and since they're *additionally*
trans, we're supposed to see them more like black women: suffering
under multiple axes of oppression and therefore deserving to be
centered in feminist discourse.  How this makes sense is beyond me.

In summary, while I think it can be interesting to ponder on whether
"woman" as a category would exist at all in a non-patriarchal society,
and whether it might therefore be better defined purely in terms of
oppression and not a category that exists outside of oppressive
institutions, I still find it questionable to include people who don't
experience a lot of female reality into the category.  One way or
another, the oppression is the reality of *female* individuals.


# Grand summary

Frankly I'm tired of this shit.  Transwomen aren't women, and I'm not
denying their humanity when I'm saying this, suggesting they shouldn't
transition, supporting violence or discrimination against them, or
anything else of that sort.  I'm simply refusing to erase the reality
of female oppression and to put their concerns above those of women.

> Many transwomen are beautiful, lovable, and feminine. They just
> aren't female. It's okay to be who & what you actually are.
-- Penny White
