http://wnep.com/2017/06/08/victims-shooter-identified-in-weis-markets-murder-suicide/

http://wnep.com/2017/06/08/disturbing-details-in-shooters-social-media/

# Disturbing Details in Shooter’s Social Media

EATON TOWNSHIP -- A big question after the supermarket shooting
Thursday morning in Wyoming County is – why? The shooter himself has
provided at least some of those answers.

Randy Stair, 24, of Dallas, shot and killed three co-workers inside
the Weis Market near Tunkhannock before taking his own life, early
Thursday, according to state police.

Stair posted numerous video and audio files online along with a
suicide note in which he talked about his legacy. We won't give him
that platform but we went through file after file just trying to get a
better idea of why he did this.

In a rambling note posted online, shooter Randy Stair said,
"unfortunately by the time most of you read this, I will be dead. I
will die at age 24 and will be where I truly belong."

For years, Randy Stair has had an online YouTube channel for his anime
videos.

In a Twitter account linked to that came a series of tweets at just
after midnight. They led to audio and video files and then a final
tweet saying, "goodbye humans, I'll miss you."

There were videos of him at shooting ranges and numerous audio
recordings, too, showing Stair had planned this for months.

One of those recordings detailed exactly what he planned to do at the
supermarket, a description that matches what state police say happened
overnight.

It is likely Randy Stair's letter that gives the most insight,
however.

"I'm a girl who's been trapped in a man's body for two and a half
decades, and I need to get the hell out. I don't belong on this
planet, nor have I ever. I need to die, and I'm taking whomever I can
down with me."

Stair wrote that a series of people close to him died starting in
2014.

He talked about financial woes.

He hoped his online videos would have brought success.

In the end, he wrote, "I'm not just ending my life. I will be ending
the lives of others as well."

What we haven't been able to find yet is why Randy Stair took the
lives of his co-workers, except it is clear reading and listening to
this, he knew he would get a lot of attention by doing what he did.
