https://www.eastidahonews.com/2016/10/transgender-woman-pleads-guilty-target-dressing-room-voyeurism/

https://www.eastidahonews.com/2016/07/man-dressed-woman-caught-taking-photos-dressing-room/

# Transgender woman pleads guilty to videotaping teen in Target dressing room

Updated at 6:10 pm, October 17th, 2016
By: Stephan Rockefeller, EastIdahoNews.com

IDAHO FALLS — A transgender woman pleaded guilty to one felony count
of video voyeurism Monday and admitted to filming a teenage girl
undressing in a Target fitting room.

Shauna Patricia Smith, 46, whose legal name is Sean Patrick Smith, was
originally scheduled for a jury trial later this month. But Smith
appeared before District Judge Joel Tingey in a Bonneville County
courtroom Monday and unexpectedly entered the guilty plea.

Smith did not enter into a plea agreement so both county prosecutors
and Smith’s attorney are free to argue a potential sentence.

Smith was arrested in July after deputies were called to a disturbance
at Target on 25th East in Ammon.

A witness reported that a man, dressed in women’s clothing, had
entered a fitting room in the store. The section of the dressing room
in the Idaho Falls Target is clearly marked as for women.

Court records show the suspect, later identified as Smith, was seen
videotaping a teenager in a stall next to him while she was trying on
swimwear.

“The victim’s mother confronted the suspect, who immediately fled on
foot. Both (the victim and victim’s mother) described the suspect as a
white male who was wearing a dress and a blonde wig. A witness
observed the suspect get into a vehicle and leave the area,” court
documents state.

A Bonneville County detective tracked down and interviewed Smith, “who
eventually admitted that she had made videos in the past of women
undressing. The defendant told (the detective) that she makes these
videos for the ‘same reason men go online to look at pornography,’”
court documents state.

Tingey ordered a pre-sentence investigation before Smith is sentenced
in November. He faces up to six years in prison and a $10,000 fine.
