http://www.star-telegram.com/news/local/community/fort-worth/article134353039.html

# Transgender bathroom battle smolders in Fort Worth federal prison

February 22, 2017 5:15 PM

A lawsuit has been filed against Federal Medical Center Carswell, over
the federal guidelines for transgender inmates. The Bureau of Prisons
medical facility and camp is located at Naval Air Station Fort
Worth. Paul Moseley pmoseley@star-telegram.com

By Bill Hanna

billhanna@star-telegram.com

FORT WORTH

Count federal prisons as the latest battleground for the transgender
bathroom debate.

Three female inmates at Federal Medical Center Carswell in Fort Worth
have filed a flurry of complaints, upset over the Bureau of Prisons
policy that allows transgender inmates who are still biologically male
to be placed in female prisons.

The women claim that they are living in a degrading and dangerous
environment by being forced to share showers and bathrooms with the
transgender inmates, according to complaints and motions filed in the
U.S. District Court’s Northern District.

The most recent complaint was filed Feb. 15 by inmates Rhonda Fleming,
Jeanette Driever and Charlsa Little.

“The Plaintiffs have been forced to share intimate facilities with
men, who allege they are women,” the Feb. 15 complaint states. “These
men openly express their sexual desire for the women inmates, at
times, in the showers, and bathrooms, while women are naked or
partially clothed.

“The men expose themselves, intentionally, for their own sexual
gratification, causing the Plaintiffs to suffer disgust,
embarrassment, humiliation, stress, degradation, fear and loss of
dignity.”

In December, the inmates filed a motion to intervene in an attempt to
get FMC Carswell included in a temporary injunction that blocked the
Obama administration from enforcing its directive, which allows public
school students — based on their gender identity — to choose the
bathroom they can use. Those guidelines may soon become a moot point
as President Donald Trump is expected to issue new guidelines that
rescind Obama’s directive.

The temporary injunction was issued by U.S. District Judge Reed
O’Connor in Fort Worth, who also is handling the complaints filed by
the three inmates. Tuesday, O’Connor issued a notice of deficiency,
ordering the inmates to pay court filing fees by March 14 or withdraw
from the case.

O’Connor also told the plaintiffs “that the filing of a civil rights
action by inmates requires exhaustion of prison administrative
remedies prior to filing suit unless such remedies are unavailable.”

The transgender debate has never been hotter, at the national and
state level.

In Texas, Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick has championed Senate Bill 6 — called
the “bathroom bill” — which supporters say would protect the rights of
schoolchildren, while opponents say it would discriminate against
transgender Texans.

The Fort Worth school district was front and center in the bathroom
debate last spring after it announced changes in its transgender
policy, offering protection for transgender and other students,
assuring that they can use a restroom where they “must feel
comfortable and safe.”

Patrick assailed the Fort Worth school district’s guidelines and said
Superintendent Kent Scribner should resign, saying, “Campus safety
should be of paramount concern for anyone in his position. Every
parent, especially those of young girls, should be outraged.”

The guidelines were later revised following town hall meetings.

### ‘This is not peace’

The women are representing themselves and the most recent complaint
names Obama, the Democratic National Committee and several former
Obama Cabinet members and claims that a person’s gender “is an
individual’s biological sex, determined at the time of birth … .”

Fleming, who has a lengthy history of filing lawsuits from prison, is
serving a 30-year sentence for Medicare fraud and Driever was
sentenced to 60 months in prison in 2015 for federal methamphetamine
trafficking charges. Little also is doing time on drug charges.

Another female inmate, Brenda Rhames, who is not part of the lawsuit,
said she is upset that female inmates aren’t given the same option to
shower separately.

“I think that I have a right to some sort of peace while I’m here, and
this is not peace,” Rhames said

Rhames is serving a 51-month sentence for stealing more than $174,000
from an Alabama restaurant where she worked as bookkeeper.

Rhames said she supports the Prison, Rape Elimination Act, which was
passed by Congress in 2003 to reduce rape in prison, but does not
think it is applied universally.

Federal guidelines established in 2012, and updated in 2016, require
local, state and federal prisons and jail staff to consider inmates’
gender identity when deciding where to place transgender inmates.

“I understood the PREA was passed in 2003 to protect everyone, not
just transgender inmates,” Rhames said. “So I believe that if the BOP
or DOJ is changing the way they’ve always done things to accommodate
the transgender inmates, they are, in effect, taking not just my
rights but other womens’ rights and lessening them to accommodate the
transgenders.

“I think that is patently unfair and I am sure that the public does
not know about it.”

She arrived at FMC Carswell in August and said she has seen four or
five male inmates who identify as female and four females who identify
as male. The lack of privacy while showering is uncomfortable, she
said.

“The showers are stalls here at FMC Carswell, but there are 1- to
2-inch openings around the frame of the stall, the bottom of the stall
is completely open, and the top is open,” Rhames said. “Anyone, male
or female for that matter, can peek in the showers at you when you’re
in there, as well as the toilet facilities, but the toilet facilities
have a smaller space between the stall door and frame so it’s not as
open as the showers are.”

### ‘Concerns are frankly not warranted’

The new rules came after a Department of Justice survey showed that a
much higher percentage of transgender inmates were being raped in
prisons. A California study in 2004 noted that almost 60 percent of
transgender women confined to men’s prisons reported being raped,
compared to 4 percent of nontransgender inmates.

Amy Whelan, a senior staff attorney for the National Center for
Lesbian Rights, said the Bureau of Prison guidelines are there to
protect transgender inmates who suffered rape and abuse in male
prisons. She said the complaints by female inmates ignore the fact the
Bureau of Prisons are following the law.

“Those concerns are frankly not warranted and they come from
prejudices and biases from people who view transgender as not being
fully human,” Whelan said. “The risks to transgender women in male
prisons in particular are so critical.”

Jill C. Tyson, chief public information officer for the Bureau of
Prisons, declined to comment, citing they “pertain to an ongoing legal
proceeding.”

FMC Carswell spokeswoman Patricia Comstock said transgender inmates
have the right to shower separately from female inmates and that the
shower stalls are private.

In the Feb. 15 complaint, the three female inmates allege that women
have been intimidated and harassed by transgender men who have exposed
themselves in the bathroom and showers.

“One male transgender was in the SHU (Special Housing Unit) and did
not want a certain female inmate in his cell, so he told officers if
the woman was put in his cell, he would rape her,” the lawsuit
said. “This man was 6’5” and weighed over 200 pounds. No female inmate
would be able to protect herself against such a large man.”

The complaint also states that “At any time, the Plantiffs are subject
to government-sanctioned rape when placed in the Special Housing
Unit. ... Women have been locked in these cells for months with these
men, exposed to their genitals and forced to shower in a locked cell
with bi-sexual men.”

An email from FMC Carswell Warden Judy R. Upton was included in the
court filings, in which she stated that transgender inmates are
considered female.

### ‘Opportunity to shower separate’

Comstock and Tyson referred all other questions to the Federal Bureau
of Prisons Transgender Offender Manual, which states it is “meant to
provide guidance to staff in dealing with the unique issues that arise
when working with transgender inmates.”

The manual said staff should be aware “of the increased risk of
suicide, mental health issues and victimization” for transgender
inmates.

“In making housing unit and programming assignments, a transgender or
intersex inmates’ own views with respect to his/her safety must be
given serious consideration,” the manual states. “Transgender inmates
shall be given the opportunity to shower separate from other inmates.”

But transgender inmates should not be separated from the rest of the
population “unless such placement is in a dedicated facility, unit or
wing” is done so for the purpose of protecting inmates.

Tyson wouldn’t provide any information about the number of transgender
inmates at FMC Carswell or in the entire Bureau of Prison system.

According to the FMC Carswell website, the facility can house 1,517
female inmates with 1,165 housed in the Federal Medical Center and
another 352 inmates at a minimum security camp.

In Texas, the prison system uses the inmate’s biological gender to
assign inmates.

There are 384 offenders who identified as transgender out of total
inmate population of about 147,000, said Jason Clark, Texas Department
of Criminal Justice spokesman. That’s up from 67 in 2014, statistics
show.

In the Tarrant County Jail, transgender inmates are housed by their
biological sex. Transgender inmates can be housed individually if they
feel they are in danger of being harmed, said David McLelland, a
sheriff’s department spokesman.

But McLelland said all jail policies are currently being evaluated by
the new jail administrator to ensure they comply with federal
guidelines. McLelland said there was one transgender inmate in the
jail this week but that individual may have bonded out by Wednesday.

*This article contains information from Star-Telegram archives.*

Bill Hanna: 817-390-7698, @fwhanna
