http://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/local-news/crossdresser-cabbie-convicted-of-rape-958087

# Crossdresser cabbie convicted of rape

**A TRANSVESTITE taxi driver faces a prison term after he was
convicted of raping a drunken woman in the back of his car. Qasim
Anwar, 30, carried out the attack dressed in make-up, a wig, women's
clothing and high heels, Manchester Crown Court was told. A jury
heard the victim had drunk so much she was virtually `comatose' and
Anwar filmed the attack on his phone.**

By Manchester Evening News

02:02, 20 APR 2010

Updated

23:43, 12 JAN 2013

A TRANSVESTITE taxi driver faces a prison term after he was convicted
of raping a drunken woman in the back of his car.

Qasim Anwar, 30, carried out the attack dressed in make-up, a wig,
women's clothing and high heels, Manchester Crown Court was told.

A jury heard the victim had drunk so much she was virtually `comatose'
and Anwar filmed the attack on his phone.

The father-of-two, known in the gay village as Layla, pleaded not
guilty claiming the woman was an eager participant who had led him on
by kissing him.

Libby Nicholls, prosecuting, said Anwar deliberately decided to take
advantage of his victim, after she fell from a bar stool at a
nightclub after a lengthy drinking session in November.

The court heard that after telling club staff she was his girlfriend
and he would take care of her, Anwar parked up near to a bed-sit he
used in Whalley Range and raped her in the taxi.

He then changed back into his normal clothing in his rented flat and
drove her home to Eccles. He later sent her a text message saying
`Hi. How are you feeling sweet - Layla', the jury was told.

Anwar, from Parkville Close, Prestwich, told the court they had
consensual sex twice in the car, sleeping after each session, and he
admitted videoing some of the proceedings on his mobile phone.

He told the court she had wanted him to photograph a tattoo of which
she was very proud.  Giving evidence via a television link, the woman
said she could not recall much of what had happened but would not have
agreed to sex and knew nothing about the video.

Ms Nicholls told the court Anwar couldn't distinguish between fantasy
and fact.  She said: "You were in charge. You were sober and she was
drunk. You know there was a quiet car park where you could do whatever
you liked to this woman.

"You had a nice warm, comfy flat just moments away, why not go there?"
Judge Andrew Blake warned Anwar that he was likely to be sent to
prison when he is sentenced next month.
