http://www.nzherald.co.nz/nz/news/article.cfm?c_id=1&objectid=10661305

# Cross-dresser jailed for raping bondage partner

By Cherie Taylor - Rotorua Daily Post

1:00 PM Monday Jul 26, 2010

A Rotorua cross-dresser has been jailed for raping a woman who took
part in bondage sessions with him.

Gordon Murray Waite, 42, was convicted by a jury in June of raping the
woman in her home in March last year. He had jumped out of her
wardrobe wearing only a women's G-string and raped her as she was
preparing for bed.

Judge Robert Wolff sentenced Waite to seven years' jail when he
appeared for sentencing in the Rotorua District Court.

Waite had a fetish for cross-dressing and the woman had helped him
dress in women's clothing at least twice before the rape.

Crown Prosecutor Chris Macklin said there was an element of broken
trust and Waite faced intellectual challenges. The woman had taken
part in the cross-dressing but had not consented to sexual activity
between them.

"There was a mistaken belief in consent ... crossed wires," Mr Macklin
said.

The incident had brought other abuse to the surface but the woman just
wanted to move on with her life.

In his submissions Waite's lawyer Andy Schulze confirmed Waite
suffered intellectual difficulties and said he had also had a "tragic"
upbringing.

The victim had put Waite in the wardrobe and then forgotten after
playing on the computer, Mr Schulze said.

"It is quite clear the victim and Mr Waite were at crossed purposes
... this was opportunistic offending," he said.

Judge Wolff said while Waite had developed a friendship with the
woman, helping her around the home and with her part-time job, the
night of the rape he took advantage of her.

"She was scared ... the genesis was crossed wires which later resulted
in the tragedy that befell upon her," he said. "You did not receive
the message to proceed and had intentionally gone on without her
consent. No reasonable person in the circumstances would have believed
they had consent.

"A message needs to be sent to the community that sexual behaviour of
this type will not be tolerated ... You were aware," the judge said.