http://www.torontosun.com/2014/02/15/a-sex-predators-sick-deception

# A sex predator's sick deception

By Sam Pazzano, Toronto Sun

First posted: Saturday, February 15, 2014 07:50 PM EST

Updated: Saturday, February 15, 2014 11:35 AM EST

TORONTO - A convicted sexual predator who falsely claimed to be
transgender and preyed on women at two Toronto shelters could be
declared a dangerous offender this month.

Christopher Hambrook — who claimed to be a transgender woman named
Jessica — has attacked four vulnerable females between the ages of
five and 53 in Montreal and Toronto over the past 12 years.

Justice John McMahon will decide Feb. 26 whether to declare Hambrook a
dangerous offender, which carries an indefinite prison sentence.

The prosecution is asserting Hambrook, a former stripper and escort
from Quebec, simply cannot control his deviant sexual urges and that
locking him up indefinitely is the best way to protect the public.

Hambrook, 37, pleaded guilty in February 2013 to two counts of sexual
assault and one count of criminal harassment involving two women — a
deaf and homeless Quebec woman and a Toronto survivor of domestic
violence — while he was living at a Dundas St. W. shelter and the Fred
Victor women’s shelter in January and February 2012.

All of the victims’ names are covered by a publication ban.

Psychiatric and court records portrayed Hambrook as “hypersexual” and
a sexual predator.

He couldn’t control his deviant urges, inside or outside of jail,
sharing his sick sexual fantasies and irritating other inmates during
a four-year prison sentence served in Quebec and Kingston.

He told grandiose lies, saying he once had a relationship with
socialite Paris Hilton, earned $350,000 as an exotic dancer and that
his mom died in the 9/11 terrorist attacks.

A self-described “heart breaker,” Hambrook said he’s had more than 80
male sexual partners in his lifetime, including “johns” in his
prostitute days and that other inmates “made advances to him rather
than vice-versa,” court heard.

After moving to Toronto in 2009, he boasted that he’d received more
than 800 e-mails from old Montreal friends “begging him to come home”
for sex and shopping sprees.

His latest crimes revealed a continuing trend of exploiting the
vulnerable — this time women living at shelters.

The first victim, a deaf and homeless woman from Quebec, checked into
the Fred Victor shelter on Jan. 8, 2012. Hambrook had been staying
there as “Jessica” since Dec. 23, 2011. She was soon terrorized by
Hambrook’s unwanted advances.

Hambrook wrote notes to the woman in French and learned both were
smokers. Then, his notes took a creepy turn.

“He asked her if she preferred men and if she wanted a sex change. She
started to feel uncomfortable around ‘Jessica’ and was nervous about
her behaviour,” said Crown attorney Danielle Carbonneau, reading an
agreed statement of facts when Hambrook entered his guilty plea in
February 2013.

Hambrook made several unwanted sexual advances toward the woman over
the next two or three days. He tried to isolate her in various rooms
and she kept rebuffing him as she felt he was stalking her, court
heard.

Hambrook stopped her once, grabbed her hand and placed it on his
crotch. She yanked her hand away and said, “No.” Hambrook started
talking about her breasts and invited her to touch his “fake breasts
(he had none).” She became scared and had trouble sleeping as his room
was across the hall.

The next day while she was in the shower, she noticed he was peering
through the gap between the door and its frame. Hambrook vanished as
soon as he realized she spotted him, court heard.

The second victim sought refuge at a Dundas St. W. shelter on Feb. 11,
2012, after suffering serious domestic abuse, court heard.

She remained there two weeks. Hambrook — who told people he was a
transgender woman — was admitted there at the same time and ended up
being his victim’s roommate.

Hambrook was sitting on a third-floor balcony, smoking a cigarette,
when the victim went outside for a smoke. He invited her to sit beside
him. When she did, he placed his hand on the bench so the woman would
sit on it. She rose quickly, asking him what he was doing and he
replied, “It’s a bum warmer. It’s also a boob warmer.” Troubled by his
comments, she went inside.

When the victim found Hambrook was one of her three roommates, she had
trouble sleeping. On Feb. 12, she left the shelter, consumed some
drugs and returned to sleep.

Early on Feb. 13, she awoke to discover Hambrook standing behind her
in his underwear, attempting to sexually assault her.

The victim shouted at him, demanding to know what he was
doing. Hambrook “simply covered his face with his hands, said “Oops!”
and started giggling, according to Carbonneau.

The woman reported the assault to police and Hambrook has been in
custody since. His DNA was found on her nightwear.

Shortly after his mother died in Montreal in February 2002, Hambrook
committed the first of his sex crimes by sexually assaulted a family
friend’s five-year-old daughter. While on bail waiting for courts to
deal with charges laid for that crime, he targeted a 27-year-old
mentally challenged woman, by sexually assaulting her in his home and
forcing her to smoke a joint.

Hambrook received two years in jail for each of those crimes, for a
total of four years.

“He had no empathy, no remorse or understanding of his victims of his
offences,” Toronto psychiatrist Dr. Treena Wilkie said in her
assessment.

In childhood, Hambrook was diagnosed with attention
deficit/hyperactivity disorder and never made it through high school.

Wilkie diagnosed him with an anti-social personality disorder,
borderline personality disorder, determined he was dependent on
alcohol and drugs and had multiple sexual deviancies. He was rated as
a high risk to re-offend sexually.

Hambrook was earlier assessed as suffering from bisexual pedophilia
and exhibitionism.

He blamed his heavy drug use or his victims for his Montreal
crimes. He stated the five-year-oldm victoim’s mother “had the hots
for him” but he rejected her. The mom fabricated the crime to spite
him, said Hambrook, despite pleading guilty to the crimes.

He asserted the mentally-challenged woman consented to sex.

In his psychiatric assessment, Hambrook provided conflicting
information on his gender identity issue. He lied that he had been
receiving hormone treatment for many years and lied that he wanted to
pursue a sex change. He admitted he only dressed intermittently in
women’s clothing and wanted to remain a man and have a relationship
with a woman.

Psychiatric reports concluded Hambrook is not transgender.

“Mr. Hambrook’s conduct inflicted severe psychological damage on both
victims,” said Carbonneau. “(They) sought refuge at Toronto women’s
shelters at difficult times in their lives. They thought that they
would be safe there, but instead, they were further victimized by the
accused.”
