% Autogynephilia

(WARNING: Not Safe For Work; pornographic content.)

This section documents autogynephilia (AGP) in transgender males,
i.e. sexual arousal from thinking of oneself as a woman, playing with
the stereotype of femininity, etc.

Note: while the term "autogynephilia" comes from the Blanchard
typology of transsexualism, we use the term more liberally here, not
necessarily in connection with the typology.

## Reddit's AskTransgender community

[How do I stop getting erect when I crossdress?
](https://np.reddit.com/r/asktransgender/comments/68r7y5/how_do_i_stop_getting_erect_when_i_crossdress/)

Note the community response.  Many people admit to having the same
experience.  Of course, this is accompanied with flat-out refusal to
admit it being a kink.

[Did sissy porn make me trans or was I trans all a long?
](https://www.reddit.com/r/asktransgender/comments/2mn8au/did_sissy_porn_make_me_trans_or_was_i_trans_all_a/)

Again, people admit to having the same fetish yet at the same time
deny that it proves anything...

## Various fetish websites

[Club Sissy: SRS/Hormones/TS
](http://www.clubsissy.com/forum/board.php?num=12)

Club Sissy is a sissy fetish website that contains a section on
transitioning via surgery and hormones.

[Sissy Social: Hormones and Medical
](http://www.sissysocial.net/forum/forums/25-girl-juice/26-hormones-and-medical)

Just like the previous, this is a sissy fetish website with a section
dedicated to transitioning.

[The House of Sissify](https://www.sissify.com/real-feminization/)

And another sissy fetish website that has a dedicated trans section.

From looking at the linked page alone, one may almost be led to
believe that the website is simply a transgender website that happens
to use the term "sissy" and is not a fetish website, because it
contains many serious resources about transgender issues like deaths
and morbidity, but when we visit the home-page...

> The House of Sissify is built upon a solid foundation of strict
> sissy training, discipline, forced feminization, and most
> importantly â€“ a place for you to be your true self.

Ouch.

[The Lipstick Fetish Forum
](http://www.lipstickfetish.org/forum/viewforum.php?f=9)

This forum seems to fetishize lipstick in particular.  It has a
section that isn't overtly about transitioning, but nevertheless
contains people who identify as transsexual.

[Black to White member "cuckyboi4BBC"
](https://www.blacktowhite.net/members/cuckyboi4bbc.17643/)

(Since it's a public profile, I hope it's acceptable to link to it.)

"Black to White" is mainly a cuckold fetish website, which fetishizes
black men in particular.  That is, white men get sexual arousal from
watching their girlfriends or wives having sex with or getting
sexually dominated by black men.  Obviously, this plays into the
racist stereotype of the overly virile black man.

For some members, the fetish is associated with a sissy fetish as
well.  The above link leads to one such member's profile.  His tattoo
makes it abundantly clear that he identifies as trans.  For those
wondering: the abbreviation "BBC" which appears in his forum name
means "big black cock", a term stemming from pornography.  I.e. the
name reads "cucky boy for big black cock" meaning he desires sexual
domination by black men.

## 4chan's LGBT subcommunity

[/lgbt/](http://boards.4chan.org/lgbt/catalog)

This is a very fast-moving forum where old entries are automatically
deleted, so there's no direct link to evidence.  (Archives exist, but
at present I'm too lazy to dig them up.)

Nevertheless, at almost any point in time, taking a walk through the
forum will reveal people who explicitly identify as autogynephiles
(though it's unclear how many of them identify as trans), people who
openly fetishize sexual submission in connection to transgenderism,
and other such things.
